I started my project with the Fama French Model. From their I added a factor for liquidity and profitability/efficiency. For the liquidity factor, I created a portfolio of 15 stocks withthe highest trading volumes from the S&P 500. Since I looked at returns since 2015, I only selected stocks that maintained a high trading volume during that period. Next, I created an illiquid portfolio of 15 stocks with the lowest consistent trading volumes in the SP500. I took the weighted average return from both portfolios since 2015 and created my liquidity factor. I found that the liquid portfolio outperformed the illiquid portfolio. It is worth mentioning I adjusted the value weighted return of the illiquid portfolio based on a ratio of the liquid and illiquid portfolio market values. I took a similar approach for the profitability factor but I used ROE as my basis. The "profitable" portfolio consisted of 15 stocks with the highest and most consistent ROEs over the test period. I actually found the portfolio with lower ROEs had higher returns. I attributed this to risk. After running my code and comparing it with the Fama French Model, I found both models had similar accuracy but my model overshot. Meaning I tested both models against a stock's actual return of -2%. My model predicted a return of -3% and the FFM predicted a return of -1%. Despite not being more accurate than FFM, I was pleased. This result showed I was picking up on additional information the FFM missed. With a larger dataset and finetuning of the model, I believe I could have much stronger predictions.
